---
layout: post
title:      "My "aha" Moment at Work "
date:       2018-03-27 03:40:01 +0000
permalink:  my_aha_moment_at_work
---


By day, I am a mortgage advisor for a well known family owned mortgage company where I live.  I really do love my job because I love helping others.  Helping someone improve their credit and get to the point where they can buy a house is a rewarding feeling. My favorite part of my job is going to a closing on a home purchase, especially when the clients never thought in a million years they would own a home.  We celebrate at the closing table, high five each other, sometimes even give hugs. It is *finally* a happy time because the process of getting there is sometimes long, hard, and demanding.

The mortgage industry is slow right now. It's always slow from around December through March because home sales are down.  This year it is especially slow because there is a lack of inventory, plus rates continue to climb so there is nobody looking to refinance their mortgage. This brings me to where I am right now with my job. I am slow. I am hurting. It is a daily struggle to find people who are looking for my help. I used to work on a team managing different people, our marketing girl, the other mortgage advisor's pipelines and hand holding all the clients as they freak out throughout the process (assuring them everything will be okay).  I stepped away from this role this past summer because I wanted more freedom to be independent, make my own hours and give my daughter some more of my time. What I thought was a great decision became the ultimate struggle. I have a lot of pride but not too much to admit that I may have got ahead of myself, especially since I knew the housing market was slim pickings and rates were steadily increasing when I made that "leap of faith". I can admit it, I kind of made a mistake jumping the gun on that one.

But the truth is, even though I have struggled, and made less money than I ever have before, it led me to where I am today at Flatiron.  When I broke off on my own I was trying to figure out how I wanted to market myself and I attempted to start a blog. I purchased a theme, which I wanted to change nearly everything about, and I was struggling. I started reading different stuff and watching youtube channels, using Lynda.com and anything I could to try to fix the way my blog looked. When I finally got deeper into the customizations of things I realized that I really actually enjoyed the development side. So then I was like hmm maybe a bootcamp before I crash and burn at work.

I read an article in July that said you need 7 forms of income when you work in an unstable industry. Mortgage is like... the true definition of an unstable industry. You can make $20k in a month, or $0. The range is massively different, and the $0 hurts a lot. After I read the article I started thinking about the different streams of income I was going to take on.  I love art, graphic design and then with the blogging interest and coding I figured that would be my little sweet spot that would give me an opportunity to freelance.

Fast forward to 2 weeks ago.  The realization set in that my business was super slow. Everyone's business at my company has been slow. That piece made me feel a little bit better but I still had been pretty down on myself because I am not someone who accepts failure. I push myself until I excel at anything I try to do. But in an industry that is cyclical, that you have zero control over what happens, the failure is daunting. 

My husband had assured me when I started the bootcamp that everything was good and that I should keep hustling at work and continue the bootcamp any hours of the day I had left over.  But for my own sanity I needed something a little bit more at work to feel a sense of accomplishment. I needed something that I could take pride in when I'm not coding at home. Our marketing girl had been going through a rough patch and had been talking to me about a need to make a move to get a full time job. I thought it was the perfect opportunity to let it be known to our team lead that I was willing and interested in picking up her job duties if he was willing to negotiate a deal with me. He was more than generous and welcomed all the input I had on what he needed to do marketing-wise. When I had started my blog in July, I had researched all kinds of stuff about marketing.  I did online courses on social media tactics, algorithms, planning entire marketing calendars and learning about what the public wants to hear.  I knew that our marketing girl wasn't doing anything that I had learned. I came to learn she had a lot going on and was barely even doing this job for the team as it was. 

So 2 weeks ago when I went to my old boss and told him I was interested in the role, he jumped on it pretty quickly.  I feel like he may have some kind of inkling of what I've been up to these past 8 months but it is going to work in his favor now.  I had all kinds of ideas for him because they were things I wanted to incorporate for my own business. But not having my blog set up had put a lot of that on hold. Fortunately, now I know how to build a blog and all of that. I could easily put mine together the way I want and get it going (although it is definitely not a priority now).  He gave me the basic gist of all the things the other girl was supposed to be doing. Everything was falling through the cracks and not getting done.  Our team was more than 2 months behind and I could see during our conversation that he wasn't happy and all of this was wearing on him.

Like I said before, I am an eager person that always strives to succeed.  I like to take an opportunity and get after it as best I can. I had all these ideas for him and had been brainstorming ways I could help for the past 2 weeks.  I met with him today to learn more about the marketing CRM he is transitioning to.  He previously used a database program called ACT. It is super heavy and lacking in several areas. I knew all about his program because years ago I took care of his entire database for him.  He needs to build out the entire new CRM, set up all the clients, referral partners, realtors, etc. in the system. He needs to set up campaigns and everything for marketing.  This is a lot of work (in his eyes) because there are a lot of issues with the data he is exporting from his old CRM. Entries are missing the tags of whether they are a client, realtor, financial advisor, etc. All of these people get different campaign assignments in the systems. This is a daunting task for someone who thinks this needs to be manually done.  

As I sat across the desk from him and he's explaining how tedious this is going to be, I'm thinking to myself of all the different easier ways I am going to accomplish this.  How I'm going to export the data, sort the info, compare the data exported of all the contacts with the data of just the individual tag groups (the realtors, financial advisors, insurance people, etc). To me, this is 1 export of of all the contacts, and 1 export of each individual tag group. Should be pretty simple. He thinks it's going to take weeks. I think it's going to take a day. 

Another project he has for me is to create the entire marketing calendar for each tag group for an entire year and set up the graphics and email campaigns in the database. Simple. I wish I could write the code in the CRM but the system he is using is actually pretty sweet. The automation is awesome and I can't wait to look at their code because it is web based. That is going to be an awesome experience digging deeper into the program.  So as I sat there with him talking about all the logistics of what he needs to do, I myself figured out what I need to do for my own personal progression in bootcamp.  Before even really digging deep into the Rails unit, I already know I wanted to create an awesome program that manages a marketing calendar for social media, and even potentially the campaign calendar. 

I've been out of the office for months now. Working from home is great but the stimulation you get from being in an office and bouncing ideas off others is something that makes me tick.  I am a social butterfly and I like being around people who equally like to think and problem solve.  I left his office so excited about the project that basically fell into my lap.  I thought I was getting myself into a part time job to hold me over through the rest of the bootcamp.  Not only that though, I also got something that is going to give me some purpose outside of coding land.  It's going to give me an opportunity to think with others, learn from things I'm doing with him, and give me ideas to take away for my own development projects.  I was so excited.  

As I was getting up to leave his office he told me something that literally made the last 3 months of feeling like a failure wash away instantly.  He told me he had been trying to work out all the things we talked about for months but just couldn't figure it out, but with my ideas and help we nailed everything down within 2 hours.  He thanked me and said he was excited to get things moving in the right direction.  He had asked me how many hours per week I wanted to give him for the projects and he said he was thinking like 3 days a week all day long, or 5 days a week for half days.  I told him that was unnecssary and although I want to make money, I am efficient and will get all his stuff done in far less time.  Right as I was walking out of his office he told me, I know I don't have to worry about you, you're efficient and I can trust you to do a good job.  And then came the blushing grin on my face because the compliment was EXACTLY what I needed.  He may think I'm efficient, but he hasn't seen anything yet because he doesn't know about my hidden skills in database yet. We'll keep that to ourselves though, he can just think I'm a magic woman.

After today's conversation, feeling the sense of gratitude I had from my hidden knowledge, I know I made the right choice in doing this bootcamp. I know I am a better, smarter, deeper thinker than I have ever been before. I was a math major, and no class I ever took in college came close to teaching me what I've learned in the last 3 months.  I've learned how to teach myself, explore and truly understand things and learning through exploration is probably the greatest brain stretch I've done.


