---
layout: post
title:      "Gem App struggles - Unrelated to Code"
date:       2018-01-31 12:23:23 -0500
permalink:  gem_app_struggles_-_unrelated_to_code
---

Anytime you are learning something new you are bound to test your brain, stretch those brain folds and maybe your head will even hurt at some point as you try to wrap your brain around the topics. 

I started this program having completed both the Javascript and Ruby sections from the Pre-Bootcamp work.  I felt good about everything I had learned and was excited about the upcoming final projects to see what I could build on my own.   When I got to the final projects though I realized I didn't know as much as I thought I did.  I had spent countless hours, up until 3 and 4 am in the morning working on code throughout my entire Object Oriented Ruby section and for some reason, there was a big part of knowledge missing. 

I went back through old information to see if I had missed something. I googled. I asked for help from other students. I e-mailed instructors. I reached a point of frustration because I wasn't getting anywhere.  Now it has almost been a week and I'm just actually starting on my Gem project.

Shout out to Travis Lavary (student) and Kevin Webster (tech coach) for their unbelievable help.  I almost threw my computer multiple times but they were a saving grace; helpful, encouraging, and supportive.

So what were my struggles and why was my experience so frustrating?

I need to preface all of this with the fact that I was a high school teacher.  My educational background was based on how people learn and how to help support them throughout the process while they explore the topics and learn on their own.  I know how this can be done effectively and google is great yes, but there are some things that we can't necessarily even put into words to even start the google process.  If you can't even come up with the idea of what you are looking for, how could you possibly be successful with that?  I understand the concept of a bootcamp, I understand that we are going to be googling a lot as developers. Aside from all of that though, when my fellow developers who have a CS background from college have to google new things, it's a little different because they have a strong foundation from their college experience.

Majoring in math and education was rigorous. I took difficult math classes that were both abstract and discrete.  I had writing intensive math classes that blew my mind. I also had to take CS classes and I do know how these concepts are taught in college.  The foundations are not left out.  Yes, I learned to struggle through labs. I learned so much and scream with excitement when I got things running properly, but I still had the foundation.  My instructor used the same programs I was using so there wasn't a gap in my education.  It is not ideal to watch an instructor use Sublime text, or another program, while I am using something completely different.  These are unnecessary gaps in education.

My frustrations with the gem project so far actually have barely anything to do with code.  I know that the code side will be another hurdle but I am more prepared for that.  

My first issue was finding a website that allowed me to use scraping.  I don't just want to do the project to get it done.  I want to do a project around an app idea that interests me, something that relates to my own life.  I think passion goes a lot further than simply knowing how to do something.  My first night working on the gem project I searched for a website for literally over 3 hours.  Every single website said no scraping allowed.

My initial idea was to do the Travelzoo Top 20.  This is a website I go to ALL the time because they offer amazing deals for travel. Nope, not allowed.  Then I started researching other travel websites that offer deals. Also not allowed. So I put that idea to rest and moved on.

My second idea was mortgages because that is what I do for a living.  I thought it would be awesome to create an app that provides mortgage rate information from several banks. The information would include the bank name, interest rate, APR, and principal and interest payments.  It is great to be able to compare different banks, and with the current housing market, I thought that was a great gem idea.  I checked BankRate, Zillow, and even individual banks like Wells Fargo, US Bank, etc.  They all have very explicit rules about scraping, ie. it's not allowed.  I can understand no scraping as a privacy standpoint for peoples private information, but they explicitly said no scraping allowed at all no matter what.

So finally I landed on the idea of astrology because I'm sure there are some weirdos out there like me who believe in that kind of stuff! I searched through many astrology sites that I go to regulary, but they also said, no scraping. Then I narrowed down to newspaper websites because I found that they didn't have any terms of use listed, fabulous!  The down side was that these websites didn't provide as much 'fun' info as the regular astrology websites.  They were pretty basic with maybe just the astrological sign and a summary.  Fortunately, I found one that had a little bit more detail to include a summary, a lucky number, financial outlook and partner compatibility.  And voila, time to start my project.  

My second issue dealt with using the "bundle gem 'insert appname' ". The first time I did this, I hadn't watched the walk through video yet.  I named my app: "Astrology-Gem-App". And just like in Avi's video, it made a funky file tree which I didn't like and it was rather confusing.  When that happened and I couldn't figure it out, I jumped forward and watched bits of Avi's walk through video.  I tried using the command he used to change the file layout. But again, I hit an issue because the terminal command did not work in the Learn IDE.  Extremely frustrating!  I googled how to fix this and of course I found different atom commands that didn't work on the Learn IDE! Go figure! 

I tried to delete everthing that had been created, except my IDE froze and wouldn't actually delete them. When I exited the program and restarted, my file appeared again.  I moved into the directory and tried to delete again! Nope, it didn't work. I literally did this about 5 times. Then I decided to just let it be and make a new one.  So I started a new blank file in the labs directory and did "bundle gem astrology_gem_cli".  And it worked. I then tried to link it to my repo that I had created.  I got an error that said it was already linked to another project so I could not do that.  I was unaware that this was a this was a 'thing' and wasn't sure what to do.

The annoyance of the final projects and these little issues that we can run into is that the final project directions also says you cannot use the 'ask a question'. So, I was stuck and I couldn't even ask about the situation and I couldn't set up an appointment for project help that was in the near future because of the availability of the instructor schedule. I also had never heard back from the instructor I emailed so I decided I was just going to use the ask a question anyway. My question wasn't related to code but it was related to something I was taught how to do, and I wasn't going to let that hold up my process and cost me more money.  

Enter Kevin Webster, a true savior.  I probably would haveer lost it even more than I did yesterday if it weren't for him.  He walked me through those issues I had with the IDE and then I was finally able to start on my project.

This brings me to where I am now.  I am finally working on the nuts and bolts of my project and I'm actually not having too many issues.  The issues arose from things I wasn't taught, and that google failed me on.  I strongly believe that this is going to happen and it's going to happen more than a handful of times which brings me to the main point of my entire post... It's so important to a strong development network.

Two of my good friends are developers.  One majored in CS and works on backend Java.  One did a bootcamp in North Carolina and works on backend with .Net. They aren't the same languages I am learning but they are knowledgeable and have real world experience to help out.  Through this process I also got help from Travis and Kevin (also shoutout to Dakota who saved my life this past weekend on something else, unrelated to code but related to the IDE).  

As a student going through the online bootcamp, we feel alone.  I attend study groups and live lectures but sometimes the group schedule times don't work out with my schedule because I am a wife and mom. I'm sure others have these same hurdles. I have heard great things about Flatiron's in person course.  It must feel great being supported and being able to walk into a building to get help.  I strongly believe that more effort should be taken to bridge the gap for the online students.  If we don't get responses from instructors, or our learning instructor, and we can't use ask a question, there is a huge problem.  Had I not just gone ahead and used the ask a question anyway I would have been waiting until the instructor finallly emailed me back, which still hasn't happened.  I understand hurdles that any growing company has but as a paying 'customer' I still tbelieve we deserve the same support, if not more support, than the in person program.  

So if you are working through the program, reach out to me. Let's buddy up! Let's help each other. And do the same for others on slack.  Also, join meetups in your area. Local resources can be great too!  Most importantly though, you MUST advocate for yourself. Do not get lost in the dust. Ask questions. Be annoying. Email whoever you can in order to get the help you deserve. You are paying for this and deserve a great experience.


